$Header: /home/xubuntu/berlios_backup/github/tmp-cvs/uuu/Repository/uuu/INSTALL,v 1.2 2003/12/23 21:08:40 bitglue Exp $

Uuu build instructions
----------------------

- get uuu toolchain

If you have not done so, aquire the toolchain module from CVS. This contains
tools required by the build environment of Uuu itself. At a minimum,
mkuuubimage is required.

If you would like to manipulate or install Uuu on udbfs (which is the default;
the alternative is to use GRUB, described below), you will also need mkudbfs
and udbfstools. Udbfslib need not be installed; the tool in the toolchain
depend on it, but will find it in the CVS tree by default.


- get zlib 1.1

The boot image used by Unununium is compressed to save space. Thus, it requires
zlib. However, due to changes made between zlib 1.1 and 1.2, Unununium will
fail to build with zlib 1.2. If your system includes zlib 1.2, you will
encounter problems described below. The solution is to download version 1.1.4
from

  http://zlib.net/zlib-1.1.4.tar.gz

Building zlib is quite simple. As all we need is the library archive, running
'make libz.a' in the zlib directory is sufficient. After building zlib, edit
Make.config and change ZLIB_LDFLAGS to tell the build system to use this custom
zlib (comments are in Make.config)


- run make

Once the standard toolchain is installed, simply running 'make' should create a
file 'diskimage' that is a 1.44MB floppy image. This can either be used as a
disk image by bochs, or written to a disk like so:

  dd if=diskimage of=/dev/FLOPPYDEVICE

If you would like to use GRUB to boot unununium, run instead 'make grub'. This
will create an ELF file sys/bootloader/x86/stage2 that is multiboot compliant
and can be simply booted with GRUB with its 'kernel' command. This enables one
to boot Unununium from any filesystem GRUB can read.


customizing things
------------------
If you should need to change the behaviour of the build, edit Make.config.
Within are settings to control what programs are used, settings for them, etc.


when things don't work
----------------------

- It doesn't build. It says something about zcalloc.

  linking stage2.o display.o command.o keyboard.o floppy.o ata.o boot.o multiboot.o  >  stage2
  /usr/lib/libz.a(zutil.o)(.text+0x4e): In function `zcalloc':
  : undefined reference to `malloc'

This is due to some changes made to zlib between versions 1.1 and 1.2. The
solution for now is to get zlib 1.1. Instructions were above.


- It boots and I get a prompt, but it just hangs when I run 'boot'. I can still
  see the prompt after it hangs.

This is most likely a problem with zlib. Often, it's because the zlib included
with one's build system will not run on the host system. If you are running Uuu
in an emulator such as Bochs, or on another (usually older) box, this is
usually the case.

The solution is to download and compile a custom zlib that does not contain
code that won't run on the host box. To do this, get zlib as described above,
and when building it, assure that the environment variable CFLAGS is unset:

  $ unset CFLAGS     # for bourne shells

This should yield a zlib with no processor specific optimizations.


- It boots and I get a prompt, but I see nothing special after I run boot. It
  seems as if the video mode has changed, and I don't see the prompt.

By default, the 'boot' command boots a nifty 3d demo which runs in a weird VGA
mode. Many boxes don't like VGA modes at all, much less weird ones. Video
drivers are in development that will allow us to use sane video modes.


it still doesn't work
---------------------

If it still doesn't work, take a look at http://unununium.org/contact and let
us know.
